Bad Week 1 This was a bad week for top women in the ANC. For starters, Faith Muthambi, Minister of Communications was on the receiving end of calls to resign or be red-carded for the shenanigans at SABC, which were all laid out in a scathing report by a parliamentary ad-hoc committee that was established to probe the public broadcaster following months of chaos, last year. The 140-page report makes interesting reading - especially if you are SABC CEO James Aguma or former COO (and de facto CEO), Hlaudi Motsoeneng. Be reminded that not too long ago, Motsoeneng declared that he would never stop breathing the air in the SABC&#39;s top floor offices.&nbsp; Bad Week 2 Over at Transport, Minister Dipuo Peters dissolved the board of PRASA (Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa); this after it sacked CEO Collins Letsoalo. Remember that this gentleman, seconded by the minister from her Department last year, controversially had his salary upped by 350% from R1.7m to R5.9m per annum as his first order of business, a decision he apparently had no power to take. Board Chair Popo Molefe (now out of a job of course), accused Madam Peters of shielding Letsoalo, allegedly sent to PRASA to scupper fraud investigations. &nbsp; Bad Week 3 And to complete the miserable week, Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini was accused of criminal negligence over the small matter of distributing grants to around 17 million South Africans. Dlamini is the political head of SASSA, which is responsible for distributing grants to poor and vulnerable men, women and children across the length and breadth of this fair land. Details aside, SASSA basically has until midnight on 31 March to figure out how grants recipients will get their cash. And everyone except Minister Dlamini thinks it&#39;s mostly her fault. &nbsp; Eve&#39;s Turn &nbsp; As Julius Malema continues to rail against JZ&#39;s overlooking of Baaitse Elizabeth &quot;Bess&quot; Nkabinde-Mmono as Deputy Chief Justice, girls appear unstoppable elsewhere. We already know they&#39;re scoring higher than boys at school, getting into IT, science, extreme sports &nbsp;and politics (Angela Merkel, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, Theresa May, etc.) in a big way. Even the proverbial gender pay gap has all but disappeared. A 2013 survey by Pew Research predicted that women&#39;s wages would surpass that of men by 2020. To be fair, this survey refers to Millennial Women (born between 1982 and 2004). Again to be fair, Justice Nkabinde (born on 1 January 1959), is a Baby Boomer (people born between 1946 and 1964). Still, a mere three years from now, Eve will replace Adam at the High Table.&nbsp; JZ Justice Speaking of justice, Luthuli House&#39;s top man last week informed Parliament that he intends to appoint Raymond to the vacant post of Deputy Chief Justice. The post (currently occupied in acting basis by Justice Bess Nkabinde), fell vacant when Dikgang Moseneke retired in May 2016.&nbsp; Forza Barca!&nbsp; If you follow footie, you probably know by now that Africa champions Sundowns begin their defence against KCC from Kampala (yeah!) and that FC Barcelona put six past PSG at the Camp Nou on Wednesday. It has been described as the greatest escape, and installed Barca, as we (supporters of the Catalan club) call it, favourites to win the UEFA champions league.&nbsp;