The Southern Kings have made five changes along with one positional change to their starting 23 ahead of their upcoming Super Rugby derby against the Stormers on Saturday. &nbsp; The team welcomes back lock Irne Herbst, who has recovered from the concussion that he suffered in the Kings&rsquo; opening clash against the Jaguares in Port Elizabeth two weeks ago. This comes as welcome relief as the side has lost a number of second rowers to injury in the last couple of weeks. &nbsp; In the loose trio, the Kings will start with a new flank combination, as Chris Cloete and Thembelani Bholi, openside and blindside flanks respectively, will be handed their debut Super Rugby starts alongside number 8 Ruaan Lerm who started in Singapore. &nbsp; In a rotational change, Luzuko Vulindlu will start at inside centre, which means that Berton Klaasen will move to the bench. Waylon Murray, who played at inside centre for the previous two weeks, will move to the outside centre for this match. &nbsp; The last change comes in the form of Ricky Schroeder, coming in to play his Super Rugby debut at scrumhalf. This change is as a result of the Kings losing both of their scrumhalves to injury in Saturday&rsquo;s victory over the Sunwolves in Singapore. &nbsp; Louis Shrueder, who started at number 9 in Singapore, is still suffering from a concussion, while his replacement, Rudi van Rooyen, has not recovered from an ankle injury. &nbsp; Coach Deon Davids said about the changes, &ldquo;the guys understand that they have to grab their opportunities with both hands. It&rsquo;s all about performing in the Kings jersey. &nbsp; &ldquo;Ricky (Schroeder) has been knocking on the door, and I&rsquo;m glad he&rsquo;s getting this opportunity now. He will have to make it worthwhile. &nbsp; &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve rotated Luzuko Vulindlu and Berton Klaasen for our centre combination. I feel that Waylon Murray, with this experience, at No13 will be good for us.&rdquo; &nbsp; The match kicks off from the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium in Port Elizaebth at 15:00, on Saturday 11 March. &nbsp; Matchday 23: 15. Masixole Banda 14. Makazole Mapimpi 13. Waylon Murray 12. Luzuko Vulindlu 11. Malcolm Jaer 10. Lionel Cronje (V/C) 9. Rick Schroeder 8. Ruaan Lerm 7. Thembelani Bholi 6. Chris Cloete 5. Irne Herbst 4. Tyler Paul 3. Ross Geldenhuys 2. Michael Willemse 1. Schalk Ferreira (capt) REPLACEMENTS: 16. Kurt Haupt, 17. Schalk van der Merwe, 18. Chris Heiberg, 19. Wilhelm van der Sluys, 20. Andisa Ntsila, 21. Johan Steyn, 22. Pieter-Steyn de Wet, 23. Berton Klaasen