Scifest has returned to Grahamstown and it is buzzing. Every corner of the town is covered in equally excited adults and school children as they learn more about the wonders of science. The Monument is at capacity with learned scientists sharing their crafts and research. However, those who stand out are the ones who were never given a voice in the field of science, the black female scientists. These women are paving the way for younger black women who wish to pursue science. Keneilwe Mabunda, an environmental officer at the National Zoological Gardens of South Africa (NZG), oversees the organisation&#39;s presentation. The presentation deals with the power of a microscope and its importance in scientific research. Secondly, Mabunda&#39;s presentation explains NZG&#39;s aim to end mining of coltan which is a metallic that is used in cellphones. According to Mabunda, the mining of coltan disrupts the natural habitat of gorillas in the Democratic Republic of Congo. &quot;There are not many female scientists,&quot; says Mabunda. She is aware that the field needs women and she hopes that the representation of women like herself will inspire and empower women through her work. Mabunda, further adds that women have had a large impact on the field and that more women are needed. Keitumetse Setshedi is another black woman who is set on having more women in her field. Setshedi is a satellite operation technician at the South African National Space Agency (SANSA). The agency deals with operating satellites in space and retrieving information that is used in navigation systems, weather reports and so on. Setshedi is of the view that many women are intimidated into thinking that satellite operations are a man&#39;s job. Setshedi holds that women who do enter the field are required to work twice as hard as their male counterparts to prove that they can do the same work. &quot;Women need to be encouraged to know that they are needed,&quot; says Setshedi. There are few women involved in the space operations section of SANSA and Setshedi wants to change this by educating more women in science.