I am ashamed to admit that in two years of being at Rhodes University the old white and partly brown-stained building next to the Drostdy Arch has never struck me as interesting. But Scifest is in town, taking me where I have never been.&nbsp; Believe me when I say I was shocked to see that there was actually stuff in there. I immediately abandoned my African freshwater insect mission (sorry, Scifest) and quietly followed the pushing and shoving of eager pupils into a world of adventure and learning.&nbsp; The Albany Museum is really something else. It is a great learning space for students and adults who prefer to be in the company of artefacts and objects that are well taken care of and secure parts of our history that we tend to forget.&nbsp; Each room exhibited different animal species, fossils and several traditional fishing objects I did not even know existed. From mammals to different types of insects &ndash; you name it, it all exists in that haunted looking building.&nbsp; I was quickly spotted by the tiny humans who discovered I had a camera in hand and they eagerly stepped forward to have their memories captured by a stranger. We left the world of mammals and ventured into what resembled a bird sanctuary. The pupils stood with their cellphones taking selfies while others preferred to listen keenly to their teacher who quizzed them on what bird species were most common in Africa.&nbsp; I then followed the beaming smiles to a section of wetlands, where we were taught about the importance of conservation and preserving our wetlands. The knowledge shared within that space was truly exuberating.&nbsp; I was content and satisfied with much of what was on display but while taking a picture of three fashion-forward students from Amazizi Senior Secondary School, I noticed that the tiny feet I had met on my way into the museum were in a room that exhibited important aspects of the AmaXhosa culture.&nbsp; The walls were covered with photographs of astonishing AmaXhosa women covered in traditional cosmetics. Together with photos that showcase different rites of passage practised by the AmaXhosa.&nbsp; In the middle of the room, a casket-looking glass cabinet displays different traditional plants, sticks and stones used by the AmaXhosa. These objects raged from Umnquma a traditional stick to Umavumbuka, a root parasite that the AmaXhosa use to prevent pimples and as sunscreen. Museums are there to educate and to exhibit important aspects of our history.&nbsp; This room in particular I felt was really important because it conserves significant parts of a culture.&nbsp; I was glad to be among the students as they glanced at photos and objects celebrating their culture. It was an amazing experience for me being that I am an international student living in the Eastern Cape. I felt that in that room at that moment it was the right time to ask the students if they were enjoying themselves.&nbsp; And in high-pitched voices they all screamed YES!