I write this column without prejudice and the intention is not to offend anyone. South Africa, among other things, should be turned into a robust public discourse platform. This approach will keep the democratic space vibrant, relevant and tolerant to other views. Taking into account new developments taking place within the body politic. The debate on the relevance of the tripartite alliance should be resuscitated, and be taken by the scruff of the neck. We need to demystify the tripartite alliance so that is not perceived as a sacrosanct phenomenon. It&rsquo;s a human creation, with a specific meaning and purpose informed by objective and subjective factors that are in a state of motion. It&rsquo;s a reflection of divergent ideological strands located within an omnibus framework. The space within this framework is characterised by sectarian competing interests. It came into being as a re-action to circumstances of a given time. However, the conditions under which it was founded have altered. Undoubtedly, it may have been relevant within a particular historical context. The change in circumstances demands that its inheritors re-think its ideological structural arrangement. The debate can be taken further by asking whether its existence adds value to the present situation. Reports tabled by the current ANC SG, Gwede Mantashe and his predecessor, Kgalema Motlanthe have noted the fact that the alliance exists on paper. This implies that organisationally, it does not exist. The alliance secretariat meetings are convened on an ad hoc basis to address polemical issues emanating from competing interests. This evinces that this platform in the main is utilised for crisis management, and thereafter it becomes dormant. This can be defined as seasonal political activism. Vociferous voices of the alliance partners (SACP and Cosatu) are heard loud and clear when deployment processes are perceived not to be in favour of vested individual interests. After individuals have been absorbed by the system, the National Democratic Revolution (NDR) rhetoric takes the back seat. Those left in the cold through skewed deployment processes make hilarious noise, projecting themselves as custodians of the NDR. When their turn comes through factional deployment, silence on the NDR becomes the order of the day. This has been the modus operandi for a very long time to protect pecuniary interests. This ad hoc arrangement has created a huge gap between the bureaucratic leadership and the rank and file followers, ultimately culminating in the decimation of grass root level structures. The bureaucratic leadership of the SACP and Cosatu could not rescue the situation because it is at the centre of the ANC&rsquo;s internal factional battles. Against this backdrop, one contends that the NDR may have perished a long time ago. This resulted in the purging of the dissenting voices. Anyone perceived to be critical of President Zuma is shown the door. Empirical evidence in the public domain attests to that effect. To take this further, Jara was expelled for asking a simple question &ndash; is the SACP flag red or JZ? Blade Nzimande, the SACP SG took an exception and made it a point that Jara was expelled. Nzimande with his cohorts protected Zuma on all fronts, labeling those critical of him and also questioning his special relationship with the Guptas as counter-revolutionaries. The deputy chairperson of the SACP and the present sports minister, Nxesi, defended the Nkandla debacle to the end. He vilified those who questioned his irrationality in defense of Nkandla and many other flawed political decisions with knock-on effects on the economy. The voice of reason in the ANC, Cosatu, the SACP and in the public domain could not escape Nzimande&rsquo;s venomous tongue-lashing. I wonder what would be Blade&rsquo;s reaction if the SABC and other media platforms could re-play video footage showing all the events leading to the 2007 Polokwane elective conference, and its aftermath. The tide has now turned against him and his acolytes. He now speaks revolutionary rhetoric, trying to regain political integrity. I can attest, it&rsquo;s too late for political recovery. The Cosatu crew protected and followed Zuma blindfolded. They&rsquo;re now speaking a different language against the once anointed leader of the NDR, President Zuma. I cannot waste time and energy on the ANC Youth League because it has been reduced into an infantile desk established to defend whatever the President does, irrespective. This applies to the current ANC Women&rsquo;s League that has abandoned the women&rsquo;s cause a long time ago. ANC structures in all spheres, with the exception of the ANC Gauteng provincial leadership, have been transformed into defence blocs defending the untenable. As a result of these developments, the ANC has completely lost the moral ground. It&rsquo;s now facing a huge risk of losing a big chunk of the electoral base. The South African sovereign credit rating downgrad to junk status must be understood within the context of the Polokwane elective conference. The junk status phenomenon commenced in 2007, and reached its climax early April 2017. You reap the harvest of your work or neglect. The reversal of the junk status would require an ANC with the ability to nip the problem in the bud. A series of meetings discussing the junk status without addressing the causes of the problem will just be another waste of time with the potential to exacerbate the situation further. The ANC is left with two options, to do what is right for the benefit of the people in general or defend the malfeasance at it own peril. Intra-organisational contradictions have reached a boiling point. This state of affairs requires astute leadership with the ability to shape them towards a new path that would produce a qualitative outcome. The latter may save the ANC from its early demise. Failing to act pragmatically, the ANC will be forced by the people across the board to do the right thing. Change processes are irreversible, and have reached a complex level. Stringent securocratic interventions won&rsquo;t succeed. The present political logjam requires an inclusive political settlement. It&rsquo;s incumbent upon all of us as South Africans to raise our collective voices in order to rescue the situation. Watch out, our silence could lead to repression and the application of underhand methods. We&rsquo;ve reached a stage where anything is possible. The ruling dynasty with its unelected super-ordinates has reached high levels of desperation. The later may lead to viciousness and cold-heartedness. &bull;Christian Mxoliswa Mbekela is a strategic work consultant specialising in HR, EE and risk management. A former SAYCO NEC member, he was part of the team that re-established the ANC Youth League. He is currently doing a PhD in the Sociology Department at Rhodes University.&nbsp; www.cmmmindpower.co.za