Police have confirmed that a case of attempted robbery was opened following the attempted mugging of a student on the Rhodes University campus last week. A woman&rsquo;s screaming in the vicinity of the Africa Media Matrix building around 9pm on Thursday 23 March had several people in the area running to her assistance. They included Grocott&rsquo;s Mail staff, who were working in the building. The young woman was visibly distraught. Two women who identified themselves as SRC councillors were among the first on the scene. They said they would take the young woman to a nearby residence. SAPS spokesperson Captain Khaya Thonjeni said according to the young woman&rsquo;s statement, she was on her way to the journalism department (housed in the AMM building) to meet her boyfriend. &ldquo;She says she called him but he did not respond. She then waited for him to come, when four males walked past her and a few minutes later she felt a hand over her mouth,&rdquo; Thonjeni said. &ldquo;She managed to scream and her boyfriend came in good time. When the robbers saw the boyfriend it is alleged they ran away.&rdquo; The University said last Friday that a statement had been received from the student involved and CCTV footage was being reviewed to aid the investigation. &ldquo;The student will continue to receive counselling and support from the University,&rdquo; the University said. &ldquo;We also commend the efforts of fellow students who came to the rescue of one of us. We also note the speedy response by both Campus Protection Unit and our psychologist who provided support to the student.&rdquo; The University said this week that a possible link was being investigated between the incident and two men subsequently apprehended on the campus by the Campus Protection Unit. The men, handed over to police, were being investigated for attempted trespassing and housebreaking, the University said. The University&rsquo;s Communications and Advancement Division said a possible link between the arrest and last week&rsquo;s attempted mugging of a female student on campus was now part of an ongoing high-level investigation. Student media platform activateonline reported that groups of students marched to various residences last Sunday night following the posting on social media of names under the hashtag #RUReferenceList. It was the publication of names under this hashtag that preceded protracted protests against rape culture on the Rhodes University campus in 2016.