All appetites are catered for in the bounteous programme for the 5th Karoo Food Festival in Cradock this weekend, 27-30 April 2017. Extra ingredients spice up the tried and tested festival recipe of masterclasses, demos, tastings, markets and foodie farm tours. Accommodation is already heavily booked with foodies homing in from as far afield as the Western Cape and Gauteng. A fresh adrenalin-rush is guaranteed by the spate of sporting fixtures and open opportunities in and around Cradock the same weekend. These include the Swaershoek MTB Race (Sunday), a canoe marathon,trail running, golf, a 4x4 routes (Saturday), fly-fishing (open waters), white-water rafting and a jukskei tournament. Big news for the festival day-market (28 and&nbsp;29 April) is a glamorous new venue &ndash; The Palms in Dundas Street. It&rsquo;s a sprawling precinct with lots of outdoor seating under old trees and shady nooks. The professional demo kitchen, wine-tasting hall, ballroom and customised braai area all create a stylish food- and lifestyle-friendly ambience. Free demos will roll all day. There is a safe children&rsquo;s play area and loads of parking close to the main entrance. The Palms self-catering accommodation has been booked by a group of bikers from Cape Town. Two night markets (Karoo Tapas on 28 April and Karoo OppieKole on 29 April) will take place in the Theron du Plessis Event Tent at Cradock High School. The menu of fresh local food from independent stalls will be accompanied by stoep-stories and live music on the side. During the events, you&rsquo;ll get a chance to assess our 10 local trainees from the Hantam Community Education Trust (Colesberg) &ndash; they are studying for an internationally accredited diploma (City and Guilds, London) in Food Preparation and Cooking. Thanks to our relationship with the Trust, they are all on full bursaries (accommodation and academic). Our routes take you to veg-growing hotspots in town and out onto the country roads that link our food-producing farms. On the Friday and Saturday mornings, artist/architect Theresa Hardman will offer two new food-themed art workshops. On the Saturday afternoon True Living restaurant offers the latest in their series of &lsquo;Three-generations&rsquo; workshops &ndash; Lekker Lombard Lamb. The Sunday Special is a fun braai challenge featuring Slow Food chefs and local talents. Each of the six will get two cuts to prepare and serve with accompaniments. The audience gets to taste a selection and votes for the winner. You can also expect to mingle with the families of the Mighty Men who will be gathering for the 7th (and final) Mighty Men Conference near Middelburg. Keep an eye on their&nbsp;facebook page for programme updates. &bull;The Karoo Food festival founding sponsor is Theron du Plessis. Vulcan Catering Equipment fitted out our teaching bakery. Other sponsors include AlgoaFM and PSG.&nbsp;The Karoo Food Festival was a runner up in the Sports and Events Tourism Exchange Awards 2016. For the full programme go to https://karoofoodfestival.weebly.com Updates are posted on our facebook page and website. For more information, write to karoofoodfestival@gmail.com