Healthcare group, Netcare, has issued a warning to the public regarding on-going job offer and training scams advertised on social media platforms or via sms or emails. Group human resources director, Peter Warrener, said the advertisements or messages claim that Netcare and Netcare 911 are seeking to employ nurses, paramedics or fill other positions.&nbsp; Similarly, learnerships and internship vacancies within Netcare and Netcare 911 are also being advertised. According to Warrener, the names of Netcare and emergency services provider, Netcare 911, are being fraudulently used in these scam advertisements, with the aim of soliciting money from the public.&nbsp; Applicants are often requested to send payment as a part of their application, with a promise of either employment at a Netcare or Netcare 911 facility or training towards becoming an employee, but are then defrauded of their money. &ldquo;Netcare does not recruit or advertise jobs, learnerships and internships in this manner and we urge the public to be vigilant with regard to any such offers, as they do not originate from Netcare or Netcare 911.&nbsp; &ldquo;Members of the public can contact the Netcare Human Resources Shared Services Centre on 086 022 5547 to find out whether a job or training opportunity is legitimate,&rdquo; Warrener said. &ldquo;We furthermore strongly recommend that those individuals who have been scammed take up their case with the South African Police Services.&rdquo;&nbsp; Warrener said there were a number of &lsquo;red flags&rsquo; that might point to the fact that the job or training opportunity advertised is a scam and not legitimate: &bull; The application form asks for the applicant&rsquo;s banking details. &bull; Only a cellular telephone number is supplied for enquiries, claiming the landline is &ldquo;out of order&rdquo;. &bull; A dream job without the need of being interviewed is being promised. &bull; A legitimate sounding company name (i.e. &ldquo;Net-care&rdquo;) is used. &bull; Payment is requested upfront for so-called administration purposes, accommodation and uniforms. &bull; The payment mechanism is facilitated via a cellular telephone number at a money market facility, such as a supermarket. &ldquo;We strongly caution job seekers not to make any payment to secure employment, a job interview, learnership, or internship where the name of Netcare or Netcare 911 name is used,&rdquo; concludes Warrener.