In 2010, we began having conversations in Grahamstown. They started as whispers between some of us involved in the creative sector; they happened at informal gatherings; in formal meetings; in supermarket aisles.&nbsp; They centered around the idea of trying to bind our efforts, of taking our individual efforts at growing the sector and giving them some momentum, making the whole greater than the sum of its parts. The talk got louder and it took some shape&hellip;the words &lsquo;Creative City&rsquo; began being used. &nbsp;The circle slowly widened as the concept intrigue more people.&nbsp; The idea finally took hold in December 2012 when the Makana Municipality Council passed a resolution endorsing the &lsquo;Creative City&rsquo; concept, and a short while later, the European Union committed some money to it and a steering committee was established.&nbsp; Signs went up at the entrance of town welcoming visitors to the Creative City. And suddenly, it was part of our DNA &ndash; as if it had always been there. However, for many residents there remains some confusion: What is a Creative City? Why does it concern me? I don&rsquo;t work in the arts so I don&rsquo;t have a role&hellip; do I?&nbsp; You absolutely do. Here&rsquo;s a useful way of looking at it: A Creative City has three layers. An upper ground; a middle ground and an under ground. We all fit in there somewhere.&nbsp; The upper ground are the visible institutions that actively participate in the creative economy. In Grahamstown&#39;s case, that would include the Festival, some faculties at Rhodes, NGOs and projects like Ubom!, the Access Music Project and Fingo Festival, and established entities such as NELM and Carinus.&nbsp; These institutions exist to nurture &ndash; and exploit (in the best possible sense of the word!) &ndash; the creative industries, helping to turn them into activities that can be run for commercial gain. They promote and market the arts and create opportunities for artists to ply their trade. They stage festivals and events&hellip;they normalise consumption of the arts into our citizenry&rsquo;s everyday life.&nbsp; On the other end, we have the underground. These are the artists. The dreamers. The creators. They write, paint, compose, design, perform, act. They are artists, technicians and artisans. They make craft, their hands, imagination, voices and minds, are the tools of their trade. A successful creative city will have a thriving underground, and will encourage the growth of that underground by being an attractive place for artists to live.&nbsp; In between the two exists the middle ground. These are the places and spaces where the underground and upper ground meet; the opportunities that are created to bring the arts to life. The catalysts. In some respects, the Festival plays this role as well, but so too do bars, taverns, galleries, stages and other spaces in Grahamstown. And also in the middle ground are the supporting industries that are crucial for the creative industries to flourish and thrive.&nbsp; In our case, these would be the guest houses, travel agents, schools, bars and restaurants: the hospitality sector is critical for an economy that sees so much inbound tourism travelling for the Arts.&nbsp; For a Creative City to flourish, all three layers need to work in sync. And if they successfully do so, then the benefits of the movement are felt far and wide across the City. More visitors, a higher profile, more marketability, more residents who want to become artists, and so institutions and NGOs can make stronger cases for funding. The schools and universities benefit and so they too can make a greater contribution to the local economy.&nbsp; It becomes a virtuous circle and, eventually, the arts and creativity become an inspiring, clean industry that drive the local economy in the same way that industries like mining or manufacturing might drive other cities.&nbsp; That&rsquo;s why we refer to the Creative City not as a project, but as a movement.&nbsp; A galvanising vision for all the residents of our city, whether they exist in the upper, middle, or the under ground.&nbsp; I&rsquo;m grateful to Grocott&#39;s Mail for opening up its pages for ongoing discussions about the movement and what it means for Grahamstown. The Creative City movement doesn&rsquo;t belong to any individual or institution... it&rsquo;s ours. Hopefully, we&rsquo;ll begin a monthly dialogue that will stimulate some ideas and action. We&rsquo;re already seeing glimmers of activity, and have done for a while. From the Grahamstown Residents Association and Business Forum&rsquo;s investment in cleaning up the City, to the Fingo Festival&rsquo;s murals and colourful artwork around town. Also in the mix are the new big projects &ndash; the Masicule Choir Concert, Cinema Under the Stars &ndash; and long running events such as the annual Carinus art auction.&nbsp; These all build a strong middle ground in our City and deserve our enthusiasm and support. Of course there are many more examples and even unsung projects, quietly unfolding on a daily basis in our City, run by dedicated men and women. &nbsp; In the months to come, we&rsquo;ll unpack those and find ways to do even more by putting some momentum behind this movement&hellip; Grahamstown needs us to. &bull; LEADING THE VISION is a series by significant&nbsp;Grahamstown players&nbsp;meaningfully contributing to key areas of growth and&nbsp; transformation in education, economic development, arts and culture and local&nbsp;governance.