FNB Varsity Shield presented by Steinhoff International newcomers FNB Rhodes narrowly lost to FNB TUT Vikings narrowly defeated, in their opening match of the competition, 16-12, on Thursday (9 February) night in Tshwane. The match was played in full view of the roaring Pretoria crowd at the TUT main stadium as the home team started in a low gear, allowing the visitors space to make runs on the wings. Just nine minutes into the game, the visitors&rsquo; Uzu Nyanda opened the scoreboard with a try, making it 5-0 but his team failed to convert. Just five minutes after missing a conversion, FNB Rhodes&rsquo;s Mike Steel extended their lead with a penalty, giving the Eastern Cape-based outfit a seven-point lead over the hosts. Despite numerous attempts for a try by FNB TUT Vikings prop Reginald Standers, the visitors&rsquo; backline remained rock solid. Towards the dying minutes of the first half the home side nearly registered with a try through prop JJ Nelson, but the visitors&rsquo; defence stood strong once more, through their crunching tackles, leaving the scoreboard at 0-7 going into the break Two minutes into the second half the FNB Vikings&rsquo; flyhalf Litha Vumisa pulled a try back leaving centre Ruaan du Preez with the conversion, allowing the FNB Vikings to take the lead for the first time in the match, making it 8-7. Just a minute later the visitors took back the lead, with a try. It was 8-12 to Rhodes. With just three minutes remaining on the clock, the home side&rsquo;s hooker Stanley Modjadji scored the team&rsquo;s second try and Ruaan du Preez converted it, ending the match at 16-12 to the Pretoria-based FNB TUT Vikings. FNB Rhodes coach, Qondakele Sompondo said that he expects his side to &ldquo;polish up our defense and work hard on our ball retention skills as we had a couple more opportunities that we didn&rsquo;t maximise on because of just poor hands and decision making&rdquo;. Sompondo said his side will be without captain Jono Braans for their home game on Monday 13 February, due to a quad injury sustained during their opening game. FNB Player that Rocks was awarded to Stanley Modjadji (FNB TUT). &nbsp; Scores FNB TUT: 16 Tries: Litha Vumisa, Stanley Modjadji Cons: Ruaan du Preez (2) FNB Rhodes: 12 Tries: Uzu Nyanda, David Nel Pens: Mike Steel &nbsp; Teams FNB TUT starting XV: 15 Bongani Zwane, 14 Tshepo Nyathi, 13 Jan van der Merwe, 12 Ruaan du Preez, 11 Arno Britz, 10 Litha Vumisa, 9 Charl Lombaard, 8 Daniel de Villiers, 7 Mpho Kganakga, 6 Mualaba Mukendi, 5 William Thomson, 4 Claude Johannes, 3 Reggie Standers, 2 Ratsaka Modjdji, 1 Jacob Nelson Replacements: 16 Dalton Dreyer, 17 Shadown Ndlala, 18 Mandla Mdaka, 19 Lungelo Xulu, 20 Bongani Phangisa, 21 Viagian Groenewald, 22 Mfundo Gumede, 23 Bongani Mtshali &nbsp; FNB Rhodes starting XV: 15 Daniel Coughlan, 14 Cian Waugh, 13 Okuhle Fumba, 12 Ryan Horne, 11 David Nel, 10 Michael Steel, 9 Yalusa Nodada, 8 Devon Barnard, 7 Jonathan Braans, 6 Kieran Skae, 5 Joshua Parsons, 4 Jethro Anderson, 3 Lukhanyo Tshongweni, 2 Uzu Nyanda, 1 Mwambu Njolomba Replacements: 16 Chulumanco Jack, 17 Moalusi Matlakala, 18 Lwandile Mkosana, 19 Matthew Stapleton, 20 Ndimphiwe Maselana, 21 Ronald McCann, 22 , 23 Lyndon Lambert.