On a slightly windy night in Cape Town, it was the stars of FNB UWC who shone the brightest. The home side showed no mercy in the demolition of visitors FNB Rhodes in a packed stadium full of energy. FNB UWC won 88-8. As early as the first minute FNB UWC crossed over the line through scrumhalf Herschelle Jantjies who dotted under the post and saw his try converted by Keagan Fortuin to lead 8-0. Only nine minutes later the home side were on the scoresheet again as Roderick Moses scored another Fortuin-converted try to extend the hosts&rsquo; lead to 16-0 after just ten minutes. FNB Rhodes were constantly on the back foot and just could not settle down as the windy conditions seemed to be a factor they could not handle. The home time capitalised on the visitors&rsquo; inability to settle and scored yet another try to rub more salt to their opponents&rsquo; wounds, this time through captain of the day Brandon Valentyn to give the hosts a 24-0 lead at the time of the strategic break. FNB UWC dominated set plays and it paid off when a powerful scrum saw Adrian Paarwater dot the ball from the back of the scrum. Fortuin converted to give the hosts a 32-0 lead after just 23 minutes. Herschel Jantjies crossed over for his second try, before winger Andre Manuel got his name on the scorers list with a try of his own in the far corner. Fortuin converted both. On the stroke of half time FNB Rhodes finally pulled one back through Devon Barnard and his try was converted by Ryan Horne as FNB UWC went into the break with a 48-8 lead. Kurt-Lee Arendse (three tries), Shaine Ordersonat and Manuel scored in the second half as Fortuin maintain his 100% conversion rate on the night, to take FNB UWC to an emphatic 88-8 win. Herschel Jantjies (FNB UWC) was named the FNB Player that Rocks. FNB Rhodes coach, Qondakele Sompondo said: &ldquo;We lost by a 88-8 score margin something we are embarrassed about. But we are not really worried about the score line, our emphasis is on our processes. We knew this day will come when we set to qualify for Varsity Shield. We can only get better and grow from such matches. We will take the lessons and move onto our next match against FNB UFH at home next Monday. Congratulations to UWC on a fine win, they really brought it to us&rdquo;. Scores FNB UWC: 88 Tries : Herschel Jantjies (2) , Andre Manuel (2), Brandon Valentyn, Shaine Orderson, Adrian Paarwater, Roderick Moses, Kurt-Lee Arendse (3) Conversions : Keagan Fortuin (11) FNB Rhodes: 8 Try: Devon Barnard Conversion: Ryan Horne Teams : FNB UWC: 1 Nathan Cloete, 2 Ralph Jansen, 3 Justin Theys, 4 Brandon Valentyn, 5 Abraham Mostert, 6 Alwyn Carstens, 7 Matthew Le Roux, 8 Adrian Paarwater, 9 Herschel Jantjies, 10 Keagan Fortuin, 11 Andre Manuel, 12 Hendrick Carstens, 13 Roderick Moses, 14 Jacquin Moses, 15 Daniel Bock Replacements: 16 Ismaeel Schroeder, 17 Bradley Jumaats, 18 Halalisani Buthelezi, 19 Curtley Thomas, 20 Shaine Orderson, 21 Clayton Daniels, 22 Gordon-Wayne Plaatjies, 23 Kurt-Lee Arendse FNB RHODES: 1 Mwambu Njolomba, 2 Chulu Jack, 3 Jethro Anderson, 4 Jesse Rich, 5 Joshua Parsons, 6 Leandre Vos, 7 Owethu Mkolo, 8 Devon Barnard, 9 Dylan McCann, 10 Daniel Caylon, 11 Nic Butler, 12 Ryan Horne, Okuhle Fumba, 14 Cian Waugh, 15 Keagan Deperfell Replacements: 16 Uza Nyanda, 17 Chris Whiting, 18 Joe Mkosana, 19 Tristan Cooke, Lukhanyo Tshongweni, 21 Yalusa Nodada, 22 David Nel Varsity Shield results FNB UKZN 16-10 FNB UFH FNB UWC 88-8 FNB Rhodes FNB TUT 13-17 FNB WSU