On Monday 13 February, Rhodes Rugby kicked off their first home match of the Varsity Shield against Cape Peninsula University of Technology (CPUT). Conditions around Rhodes Great Field were cold and wet, setting the scene for an exciting game of rugby. &nbsp; Rhodes Rugby came into the match after a narrow 16-12 defeat to Tshwane University of Technology (TUT) in Pretoria, due to a try by TUT in the final moments of the game. &nbsp; The weather proved to be a factor early on, as handling errors were numerous in the opening few minutes. CPUT&rsquo;s poor discipline resulted in Mike Steele slotting over a penalty halfway through the first half to take a 2-0 lead. &nbsp; CPUT began applying severe pressure in the late stages of the first half, however Rhodes&rsquo; defence remained strong. With 2 minutes left on the clock, Mike Steele lined up another penalty, but failed to convert. Rhodes managed to hold onto their 2 point lead at halftime. &nbsp; The rain and wind picked up as the second half kicked off. The first try of the match came in the 45th minute, as Okuhle Fumba crossed the line for Rhodes after a kick chase in CPUT&rsquo;s 22m. Mike Steele converted to take Rhodes to a 10-0 lead. &nbsp; Halfway through the second half, CPUT continued to attack the Rhodes tryline, however Rhodes&rsquo; defence remained solid under pressure. Rhodes&rsquo; defence finally broke in the 54th minute, as CPUT Malan Roode crossed over in the corner. Randy Brinkhuis failed to convert, and the score went to Rhodes 10-5 CPUT. &nbsp; With 10 minutes to go, CPUT continued to attack inside Rhodes&rsquo; 22m. Several scrums as a result of the weather put even more pressure on the Rhodes defence. CPUT failed to capitalize on the pressure as a near certain was ruled out due to an offside call. &nbsp; After continued pressure, the Rhodes line finally cracked for the second time, and CPUT Shaurick Blom went over close to the posts. Randy Brinkhuis converted and CPUT managed to muscle out a 10-13&nbsp;victory over the home side. &nbsp; Rhodes Coach Qondakele Sompondo said after the game, &ldquo;I am very proud of the effort, I think the boys put together another show&rdquo;. &ldquo;For two weeks in a row now they put together a solid performance, but just released the pressure at very critical moments of the game,&rdquo; Sompondo added. &nbsp; Sompondo believes that Rhodes&rsquo; recent disappointing losses in the final minutes of the game can be boiled down to game management and experience, and he believes that over the next two weeks they will begin to learn how to close out big games. &nbsp; Rhodes received a consolation prize, however, as the Player that Rocks was named as Rhodes Scrumhalf, Yalusa Nodada. &ldquo;You are not going to get the Player that Rocks from a losing side, it tells you that you were the better team on the day&rdquo;, Sompondo said. &nbsp; Rhodes Rugby&rsquo;s next match is against the University of the Western Cape away, and Sompondo believes that, if his team can manage to build on the previous two matches, they can close out a decent win away. &nbsp; Scorers: Rhodes: Tries: Okuhle Fumba Conversions: Mike Steele Penalties: Mike Steele &nbsp; CPUT: Tries: Malan Roode, Shaurick Blom Conversions: Randy Brinkhuis