On 1 February at PRIME, we shut up and listened, and you talked. It was sometimes uncomfortable because there are understandably frustrated and angry members. And the lively conversations are still continuing. &nbsp; There is no doubt Grahamstonians have a range of strong opinions about how to fix the city. Some see it as irretrievably broken and requiring the Council be dissolved and Full Administration enacted, while others advocate a more conciliatory approach. &nbsp; So how can this be resolved? &nbsp; Last year GRA members adopted a robust Constitution that instructs that GRA will do all things that are in the interests of Grahamstown. For this reason, it is no accident that we are regularly meeting and talking with councillors and municipal employees at every level, from street cleaner to municipal manager.&nbsp; We are being constructive, working jointly and gently influencing, making representations to Province to get roads fixed, trying to get Makana and the SPCA to agree an SLA so we can start controlling stray animals, and many other things. Progress is happening. On the other hand, years of attempted negotiation has not resulted in a safe, well-run landfill site, so GRA is assisting the Makana Unity League High Court action which is an attempt to compel Makana to manage the site properly. &nbsp; We have also invited the Green Scorpions back to pursue the Compliance Notice they issued in 2015. &nbsp; The smoke from fires is a dangerous health hazard and must be stopped. Full stop. Not negotiable. Every breath you take of those fumes contains carcinogenic toxins. &nbsp; Coalition returns No one would expect, when there are so many complaints, to satisfy everyone. But whatever the negatives, and we had a fair few expressed at our meeting, please don&rsquo;t lose sight of our aim to &lsquo;to live in a well-managed city at peace with itself&rsquo;. &nbsp; To achieve this, we will still devote the majority of our time to fixing problems, answering member queries, and projects to help brighten our environment. &nbsp; On the other hand, there&rsquo;s no point merely painting over rotten structures, which means robustly representing the interests of members, hopefully without fear or favour. &nbsp; Jonathan Walton, the convener of the Makana Civil Society Coalition, which was formed in 2014 as Makana was placed under partial administration, is currently calling on interested parties and groups to regroup. The Coalition was never satisfied with the scoping of the administration provided by Province and called for Full Administration to be implemented. &nbsp; GRA was a participant in this coalition from its inception. We will report back on how much interest this call to regroup produces. If this interests you please contact GRA or email jonathan@blacksash.org.za or call 083 658 7097. Safety concerns There are other serious issues at the landfill site concerning personal security, including a violent assault last weekend which SAPS are investigating.&nbsp; It is understandable that some people are fearful to use the site. GRA encourages you to use your own judgement, as hundreds of people take refuse there daily, the vast majority without incident. &nbsp; If you decide not to go yourself, you can contact one of the low-cost and helpful businesses offering to take larger items that cannot go in your weekly municipal collection. &nbsp; Despite all the difficulties, we still need to prevent anti-social and illegal dumping.&nbsp; GRA is putting details of private waste removers on our website so you know who to contact. If you have suggestions on this subject please let us know. More rubbish and security Somerset Heights residents please diarise, GRA are holding a meeting at 5.15pm Wednesday 22 Feb 2017 in the Graeme College main hall near reception. We are going to discuss and vote on the long abused Highbridge Road dump site. Ward councillor Brian Fargher will be in attendance to hear your comments. It is anticipated that it will be a short meeting. Immediately following on, Patrick McCarthy will be telling interested parties about the patrols he has been running (with 52 volunteers!) in Somerset Heights providing security night time patrols in the area. He is working with Hi Tec Security and SAPS to prevent crime.