Makana has declared a water disaster in the municipality. A resolution was passed in full Council meeting to declare a local state of disaster so that urgent action could be taken to secure the town&rsquo;s water supply. A report from acting municipal manager Mandisi Planga says the total raw water storage left to supply the Grahamstown West area of the municipality is enough for 95 days. &ldquo;It must be noted that this is if there is no further irrigation draw-offs or any credible rainfall in the catchment area of [Settlers] dam,&rdquo; the report states. &ldquo;It is for the above facts that a declaration of a local state of disaster is crucial so that a disaster management process plan in anticipation of the worst could be initiated as a matter of urgency,&rdquo; the report states. Director of Engineering and Infrastructural Services Dali Mlenzana said Settlers Dam had reached the crucial 30% level below which water could no longer be extracted. Mayor Nomhle Gaga said a disaster plan had to be urgently&nbsp;drawn up and acted&nbsp; Makana has declared a water disaster in the municipality. A resolution was passed in yesterday&rsquo;s full Council meeting to declare a local state of disaster so that urgent action could be taken to secure the town&rsquo;s water supply. A report from acting municipal manager Mandisi Planga says the total raw water storage left to supply the Grahamstown West area of the municipality is enough for 95 days. &ldquo;It must be noted that this is if there is no further irrigation draw-offs or any credible rainfall in the catchment area of [Settlers] dam,&rdquo; the report states. &ldquo;It is for the above facts that a declaration of a local state of disaster is crucial so that a disaster management process plan in anticipation of the worst could be initiated as a matter of urgency,&rdquo; the report states. Director of Engineering and Infrastructural Services Dali Mlenzana said Settlers Dam had reached the crucial 30% level below which water could no longer be extracted. Mayor Nomhle Gaga said a disaster plan had to be urgently&nbsp;drawn up and acted&nbsp;