The computer lab in the Joza Youth Hub is now open to the public every weekday from 4pm to 6pm and every Saturday from 9am to 5pm. Local computer training NGO, Awarenet, has partnered with the Rhodes University School of Journalism to open the Joza Youth Hub lab to any local resident who signs up as a member of the Awarenet Open Lab. From 4pm to 5pm every weekday, the lab will be dedicated to the exclusive use of learners, who be given curriculum-related support by a group of Awarenet and Journalism School trainers. But, from 5pm to 6pm, and from 9am to 5pm on Saturdays, the lab can be used by any Awarenet Open Lab member, young or old. There is no charge, but members must fill out a questionnaire and sign an acceptable use contract. The computers at the Joza Youth Hub lab are in the process of being loaded with a wide variety of CAPS-aligned learner support materials (for example, videos for all CAPS subjects from Grades 10-12, study guides and past exam papers). In addition, the computers offer educational games, a wide variety of isiXhosa, Afrikaans ebooks and audiobooks, local documentaries, and other content. The computers also have links to dozens of useful educational websites online. Local community computer activist, Ulizwi Nelani, is in the lab every weekday evening and on Saturdays to assist learners with their school projects and other curriculum-related computer activities. He is joined by members of the Awarenet team and will eventually be joined by volunteers from Rhodes University. Nelani said that the Awarenet Open Lab aimed to help learners and other community members to use the lab in a productive way, and ultimately to better serve the information and communicative needs of the community. Basic computer training programmes and digital citizenship course will be offered in the near future. If you would like to join the Awarenet Open Lab, come up to the Joza Youth Hub or phone Ulizwi Nelani at &nbsp;078 729 3939. Alternatively, follow the Awarenet Facebook page online. &bull; Rod Amner is a lecturer in the Rhodes University School of Journalism and Media Studies.