While many chose to use Freedom Day to launch a long weekend out of town, a group led by Grahamstown cultural activist Sizwe Mda held a commemorative event at BB Zondani Hall. Makana Municipality&rsquo;s local economic development manager Thembinkosi Sindane was a guest at the event, where township tours were among the topics discussed. The concept has been on recent Council agendas, and Sindane&nbsp;confirmed that it remains firmly on his department&rsquo;s radar. The hashtag #FreedomDay trended on Twitter, and among them was a message from advocate Thuli Madonsela, who tweeted, &ldquo;Happy #FreedomDay to all the people of South Africa. May the coming years see the frontiers of freedom expand and democracy work for all.&rdquo; The weekend was flanked by public holidays and on Monday, May Day, labour federation Cosatu&nbsp;held rallies across the Eastern Cape under the theme, Build Cosatu Engines for People&rsquo;s Power on the Ground through Struggle for Ownership and Control of the Economy. Rallies took place in Port Alfred, King William&rsquo;s Town, Queenstown and Mbizana. According to a statement from Cosatu this last week, the rallies were to preced by marches where consolidated memorandums containing workers&rsquo; demands would be handed over to the Department of Labour and Business. Among Cosatu&rsquo;s demands are a call to the provincial government to abandon their plans to build the Wild Coast toll road, &ldquo;if workers and the poor communities are to pay when utilising it because our view&nbsp;is that all those can be paid for from taxes&rdquo;. &ldquo;We will also demand the banning of labour brokers, an end to outsourcing and payment of &nbsp;all outstanding &nbsp;benefits to workers,&rdquo; the statement issued by Eastern Cape Cosatu provincial secretary Xolani Malamela said. Meanwhile the new South African Federation of Trade Unions celebrated May Day with a march from Curries Fountain in Durban to the City Hall, according to a statement from acting spokesperson Patrick Craven. &ldquo;We shall also be celebrating the 30th anniversary of our affiliate Numsa, which was launched in 1987.&rdquo; Lined up to speak were Zwelinzima Vavi, General Secretary of Saftu, Irvin Jim, General Secretary of Numsa and leaders of other Saftu affiliated unions.